.TH OBDC 1 "2026-03-15" "1.0.0" "OBD Commander Manual"
.SH NAME
obdc \- OBD-II car computer dashboard and CLI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B obdc
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fISUBCOMMAND\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B obdc
is a professional OBD-II car computer system for Linux (including Raspberry Pi 4/ARM).
It provides a real-time WebSocket server, mobile-first web dashboard, SQLite logging,
DTC diagnostics, session tracking, and a JSON-first CLI.
Works with any OBD-II compliant vehicle (1996+) via ELM327-based USB adapters.
Operates fully offline — no network or cloud connection required.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Server Management
.TP
.B obdc server start [\fIPORT\fR]
Start the web server and OBD listener. Default port: 9000.
.TP
.B obdc server stop
Stop the running server.
.TP
.B obdc server restart [\fIPORT\fR]
Restart the server.
.TP
.B obdc server status
Print server running state and PID as JSON.
.TP
.B obdc server headless
Start in daemon mode without opening the dashboard.
.SS OBD Queries
.TP
.B obdc status
Show OBD connection status, VIN, session ID, and live sensor count as JSON.
.TP
.B obdc scan
List all supported sensors and their current values.
.TP
.B obdc read \fISENSOR\fR
Read a single sensor by name (e.g.\& RPM, SPEED, THROTTLE_POS).
.TP
.B obdc dtc
List active Diagnostic Trouble Codes (DTCs).
.TP
.B obdc dtc clear
Clear all DTCs (confirmation required).
.TP
.B obdc vin
Print the vehicle VIN decoded over OBD-II Mode 09.
.SS Data Export
.TP
.B obdc export [\fIFILE\fR]
Export session data to CSV.
.TP
.B obdc db stats
Print database statistics (row counts, disk usage).
.TP
.B obdc db clean
Remove sensor data older than 30 days.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-json
Force JSON output (most commands default to JSON already).
.TP
.B \-\-port \fIPORT\fR
Override default port (9000).
.TP
.B \-\-device \fIDEVICE\fR
Override OBD device path (default: auto-detected from /dev/ttyUSB*).
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/obdc/obdc.db
SQLite database: sensor_data, sessions, vehicle_profiles, vehicle_stats tables.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/obdc/config.json
Runtime configuration: theme, units, refresh_rate.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/obdc/obdc.log
Structured application log (INFO/WARNING/ERROR).
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/obdc/server.pid
PID file written by the server process.
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/obdc.service
Optional systemd service file for auto-start on boot.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B OBDC_PORT
Override default server port (9000).
.TP
.B OBDC_DEVICE
Override OBD device path.
.TP
.B OBDC_DB
Override SQLite database path.
.SH ARCHITECTURE
.B obdc
is written in pure Python and runs on any architecture supported by Python 3.9+.
Tested architectures:
.IP \[bu] 2
x86_64 (amd64) — primary development platform
.IP \[bu]
aarch64 (ARM64) — Raspberry Pi 4, Pi 5, Apple Silicon VMs
.IP \[bu]
armv7l (armhf) — Raspberry Pi 3/Zero 2 (32-bit)
.PP
For Raspberry Pi 4 (aarch64):
Use \fBpip3 install -r requirements.txt\fR inside a venv.
The \fBobd\fR Python package includes pre-built ELM327 drivers for ARM.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Start the dashboard on default port:
.RS
.B obdc server start
.RE
.PP
Start on a custom port and open in a browser:
.RS
.B obdc server start 8888 && xdg-open http://localhost:8888
.RE
.PP
Query current RPM:
.RS
.B obdc read RPM
.RE
.PP
Export the last session to CSV:
.RS
.B obdc export ~/drive-$(date +%Y%m%d).csv
.RE
.PP
Check for trouble codes:
.RS
.B obdc dtc
.RE
.SH OBD DEVICE SETUP
Connect an ELM327 USB adapter to the vehicle OBD-II port and to the host USB port.
.PP
Add the current user to the \fBdialout\fR group:
.RS
.B sudo usermod -aG dialout $USER
.RE
.PP
Verify the device appears:
.RS
.B ls /dev/ttyUSB*
.RE
.PP
The server auto-detects the device at startup. Use \fB\-\-device\fR to override.
.SH OFFLINE OPERATION
.B obdc
is fully offline-capable by design. All data is stored locally in SQLite.
The web dashboard uses no external CDN, JavaScript framework, or cloud service.
VIN decoding uses an embedded lookup table (no network required).
OBD-II communication is local USB serial — no WiFi needed.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
View structured logs:
.RS
.B tail -f ~/.local/share/obdc/obdc.log
.RE
.PP
Check server status:
.RS
.B obdc server status
.RE
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/kleinpanic/obd-dashboard/issues
.PP
.B COOLANT_TEMP (PID 0x05)
is not available on some vehicles (e.g. 2021 Subaru Crosstrek) which use
proprietary protocols for coolant temperature. Use OIL_TEMP and AMBIANT_AIR_TEMP instead.
.SH LICENSE
MIT License. See LICENSE file in the source distribution.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR python3 (1),
.BR sqlite3 (1),
.BR systemctl (1)
.SH AUTHOR
kleinpanic <https://github.com/kleinpanic>
